So we are going to switch
the gears a little bit and
see how one of the most powerful sensors,
the GPS, got into the cellphone.
See, the telephone was very popular in
the 50s and 60s, and it was growing.
And, people realized how useful
it would be to respond to crime,
fires, highway accidents,
medical emergencies.
Every house had a telephone.
So, they set up these PSAP's,
public safety answering points,
which would receive all the 9-1-1 calls,
and they would do the first triage,
and see what kind of help
needed to be sent to whom.
And this actually started
in 1957 in Australia and
Canada in the 1966 after the U.S.
and the Congress and
the White House got onto AT&T,
it started in U.S., also.
This is essentially how it works.
You can think of the Bob and Sheldon
that we used in the previous example.
So there's a 911 caller and
the SR7 database.
It has a master street guide and
address, MSAG in this example.
So when somebody calls 911,
it goes to PSAP,
that's the public safety answering point.
And they get all the information.
And when this is happening, in
the background, the their actual address.
It's called automatic
location information.
ALI.
That's the physical address of the caller.
It's actually sent to the PSAP.
And they can get the activities
started in the background.
The agent is still talking to the person
having an emergency in terms of
dispatching a fire truck or
an ambulance, or whatever it was.
It took about 45 years to cover
the entire North American
population of about 400 million,
this is Canada and U.S.
to have the complete 911 coverage.
And this is a slight sidebar.
In 2004 or 2005 there was a company
in India that was using the computer
telephoning integration
interactive voice response that we
covered in one of the previous modules.
They covered 400 million people in India
with one way services which
is their counterpart.
in a period of five
years all using computer
telephone integration technologies.
The really amazing thing about this
service was not just the technology,
the CTI or the architecture elements.
It was the human factors of it,
the human capital.
The way they trained a very
large staff of ambulances and
the call centers and each call center has
actually a doctor physically present,
talking to the patient very very
interesting development.
Anyway, going back to
the growth of the cell phone,
by 1996 they saw that
the growth of the cell phone was much
bigger than what they had anticipated.
And by 2000, they were going to have
more cell phone connections
than the landline phone.
This was a problem.
What do you do with, All the 9-1-1?
The person could be anywhere else.
So, the 9-1-1 system
was going to be broken.
So in 1996 the FCC got in again and
they mandated the E911 in two phases.
The phase one, which pretty much started
immediately, they needed to bypass
all the building software in their
networks if it was a 911 call.
So, even if the phone is not
registered to a specific operator like,
Voto Fone or Verizon,
you still had to complete the call.
In phase two, starting in 2001,
25% of the handsets need to have
automatic location information,
ALI, and by 2005 all
handsets that they were gonna be selling
were to have this particular capability.
And they left a lot of wiggle room in
terms of the accuracy that they needed.
So that they could provide
the location-based services,
either using some of
the handset-based technologies or
a combination of cell towers and
hand based technologies.